Create Swift enums and optionals (#524)
Codecademy/docs: content/swift/concepts/optionals/optionals.md

---
Title: 'Optionals'
Description: 'Optionals are types that deal with scenarios involving the potential presence or absence of a value (nil).'
Subjects:
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags:
  - 'Optionals'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

Optionals are types that deal with scenarios involving the potential presence or absence of a value (`nil`).

## Syntax

In Swift, a non-optional variable should not be set to `nil`. Rather, the optional type must be defined using the added question mark `?`.

> There are two ways to use an optional. Below, a variable named `myVariable` is set to an optional `Type`, `Type?`. `Type` refered to a [Swift data type](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swift/data-types). It can either be equal to some value with the specified data type or `nil`.

Author: ```suggestion
There are two ways to use an optional. Below, a variable named `myVariable` is set to an optional `Type`, `Type?`. `Type` referred to a [Swift data type](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swift/data-types). It can either be equal to some value with the specified data type or `nil`.
```

```pseudo
var myVariable: Type?
var myVariable: Optional<Type>
```

**Note:** If `myVariable` is not assigned a value of the specified data type, it will default to `nil`.

## Unwrapping Optionals

Optional types should unwrapped only if it's certain that a value is present. An [error](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/error) will result if an optional without a value is unwrapped. Below are some ways this can be done.

### Nil-Coalescing

> The nil-coalescing operator, ??, assigns a value by checking from left to right. If the preceding Optional values are nil, the default value on the right is assigned. In the example below, since maybeInt was previously declared as nil, myInt will default to 27:

Author: I'm not sure why the backslashes were removed. Speculating that I pushed up some old references. Thanks for catching these!

> The nil-coalescing operator, `??`, assigns a value by checking from left to right. If the preceding optional values are `nil`, the default value on the right is assigned. In the example below, since `maybeInt` was previously declared as `nil`, `myInt` will default to `27`:

Reviewer: should there be a line of code showing the definition of `maybeInt`. I'm assuming it looks something  like this:
```swift
var maybeInt:Int? = nil
```
Since Swift is fussy when a type is not declared. Should the `:Int?` part be explained?

```swift
var myInt = maybeInt ?? 27
```

**Note:** In the following code blocks, a mutable `var` variable can be used in place of any constant `let` variable.

### `if let`

`if let` is an optional binding control structure.

```swift
var maybeString: String? = "maybeString"

if let myString = maybeString {
  print("\(maybeString) and myString are equal!")
} else {
  print("myString could not be assigned to nil.")
}

// Output: Optional("maybeString") and myString are equal!
```

`myString` is declared and conditionally bound to the `maybeString` optional. The value of `myString` can be accessed from inside the `if` statement and within `myString`'s outer scope.

### `guard let`

`guard let` is another optional binding control structure that can be used within a function.

> ```swift

Reviewer: can we wrap this in a function just to be clear that this is to be used in a function else you get an error
```suggestion
```swift
func findInt(){
```

guard let myInt = maybeInt else {
  return

> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}
}
```

```

If the optional `maybeInt` holds a value, it will be assigned to `myInt`. Otherwise, the `else` block will run and hit the `return` statement.

> 

Reviewer: Can we have a swift (lol) statement of why `guard let` would be used compared to `if let`, right here?

Author: @KTom101 Good point, I felt it was a better transition on line 65, right before we go into `guard let`. LMK what you think!

Reviewer: @yangc95 I think it works there too!

**Note:** The following ways to upwrap optionals is not recommended because it does not handle `nil` cases.

### Forced Upwrapping

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Placing an `!` after an optional value forces it to unwrap its value:

```

---
Title: 'Optionals'

> Description: ''

Author: ```suggestion
Description: 'Optionals are types that deal with scenarios involving the potential presence or absence of a value (nil).'
```

Subjects:
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags:
  - 'Optionals'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

Optionals are types that deal with scenarios involving the potential presence or absence of a value (nil).

## Syntax

> In Swift, a non-optional variable can't be set to nil. Rather, the optional type must be defined using the added question mark `?`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Swift, a non-optional variable cannot be set to `nil`. Rather, the optional type must be defined using the added question mark `?`.
```

The second sentence should also account for defining optionals with the alternative syntax:

```pseudo
var maybeInt: Optional<Int>
```

> Below, a variable `myInt` is declared and set to the optional `Int` type, `Int?`. It can either be equal to any integer or nil.

Reviewer 2: I don't see a variable called `myInt` declared, just `maybeInt`?

Author: 😮 you're right! It should be `maybeInt`

```swift

> var maybeInt: Int? = nil

Reviewer 2: `myInt` or ``maybeInt`?

```

**Note:** If `myInt` is not assigned the value of nil, it will default to nil.

## Unwrapping Optionals

> Optional types can be unwrapped if it's certain that a value is present. Below are some ways this can be done.

Reviewer 2: Would it also be correct to assume that values of an optional type must be unwrapped before they can be used?

Author: I would say so. I also added a line in regard to this

> ### Nil Coalescing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Nil-Coalescing
```

> The nil coalescing operator, `??`, checks the value on the left. If that value is nil, the default value on the right side is used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The nil-coalescing operator, `??`, is used to assign a value by checking from left to right and assigns a default value if all the preceding `Optional` values were `nil`. Per the example below, if `maybeInt` is `nil`, the default value on the right side, `27`, will be assigned to `myInt`:
```

Author: Thanks for helping to make this clearer! How does this compare:

> The nil-coalescing operator, `??`, assigns a value by checking from left to right. If the preceding `Optional` values are `nil`, the default value on the right is assigned. In the example below, since `maybeInt` was previously declared as `nil`, `myInt` will default to 27:

Reviewer 2: This is awesome!

```swift

> var myInt = maybeInt ?? 27

Reviewer 2: Should we add an output comment here?

```

> Since `maybeInt` is previously declared as nil, `myInt` will default to 27.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since `maybeInt` was previously declared as `nil`, `myInt` will default to 27.
```

> **Note:** In the following code blocks, a mutable variable `var` can be used in place of any constant variable `let`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** In the following code blocks, a mutable `var`-variable  can be used in place of any constant `let`-variable.
```

> ### `if` `let`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `if let`
```

> `if` `let` is an optional binding control structure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`if let` is an optional binding control structure.
```

```swift
var maybeString: String? = "maybeString"

if let myString = maybeString {
  print("\(maybeString) and myString are equal!")
} else {
  print("myString could not be assigned to nil.")
}

// Output: Optional("maybeString") and myString are equal!
```

`myString` is declared and conditionally bound to the `maybeString` optional. The value of `myString` can be accessed from inside the `if` statement and within `myString`'s outer scope.

> ### `guard` `let`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `guard let`
```

> `guard` `let` is another optional binding control structure that can be used within a function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`guard let` is another optional binding control structure that can be used within a function.
```

Subjects:
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags:
  - 'Optionals'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

Optionals are types that deal with scenarios involving the potential presence or absence of a value (`nil`).

## Syntax

In Swift, a non-optional variable should not be set to `nil`. Rather, the optional type must be defined using the added question mark `?`.

There are two ways to use an optional. Below, a variable named `myVariable` is set to an optional `Type`, `Type?`. `Type` referred to a [Swift data type](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swift/data-types). It can either be equal to some value with the specified data type or `nil`.

```pseudo
var myVariable: Type?
var myVariable: Optional<Type>
```

**Note:** If `myVariable` is not assigned a value of the specified data type, it will default to `nil`.

## Unwrapping Optionals

Optional types should be unwrapped only if it's certain that a value is present. An [error](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/error) will result if an optional without a value is unwrapped. Below are some ways this can be done.

### Nil-Coalescing

> The nil-coalescing operator, `??`, assigns a value by checking from left to right. If the preceding optional values are `nil`, the default value on the right is assigned. In the example below, since `maybeInt` was previously declared as `nil`, `myInt` will default to `27`:

Author: ```suggestion
The nil-coalescing operator, `??`, assigns a value by checking from left to right. If the preceding optional values are `nil`, the default value on the right is assigned. 

In the example below,`maybeInt` is declared to be `nil`, therefore `myInt` will default to `27`:
```

```swift

> var myInt = maybeInt ?? 27

Author: ```suggestion
var maybeInt: Int? = nil
var myInt = maybeInt ?? 27

print(myInt)
// Output: 27

```

```

**Note:** In the following code blocks, a mutable `var` variable can be used in place of any constant `let` variable.

### `if let`

`if let` is an optional binding control structure.

```swift
var maybeString: String? = "maybeString"

if let myString = maybeString {
  print("\(maybeString) and myString are equal!")
} else {
  print("myString could not be assigned to nil.")
}

// Output: Optional("maybeString") and myString are equal!
```

`myString` is declared and conditionally bound to the `maybeString` optional. The value of `myString` can be accessed from inside the `if` statement and within `myString`'s outer scope.

### `guard let`

`guard let` is another optional binding control structure that can be used within a function.

```swift

> guard let myInt = maybeInt else {
>   return
> }

Author: ```suggestion
  guard let myInt = maybeInt else {
    return
  }
   print(myInt)
```
